hi my name is Brian Carney I am a
professor of civil engineering at
University of Toronto and the associate
dean of cross-disciplinary programs and
I would like to invite you to join us to
see her as we look at this new course
which is going to explore our energetic
planet the earth is a phenomenally
energetic place the surface of the earth
is surrounded by phenomenon and include
everything from waves breaking on a
beach to watch in a river flow to
perhaps looking at an amazing cloud
formation and seeing the light and the
water and when we look at those things
we're looking at not just mass not just
matter but we're looking at the transfer
of energy we're looking at how that
moves from one place to another and how
its transformed in its movement we also
are going to be looking at the most
tranquil things of looking at light on
water when we might walk by a pond and
what are challenging in this course is
to connect these images together to ask
why sometimes energetic phenomena are
dispersed and widely separated why are
they sometimes concentrate together into
amazing things like waterfalls or like
waves on a beach or like a thunderstorm
and what we're fundamentally gonna do is
to try to use energy as the theme or
thee is the Metis story the story that
underlies all the other stories of how
these transformations take place we're
gonna be looking at some basic questions
the questions that humans of Allison's
time and memorial questions like why is
the sky blue where does the wind come
from and where does the wind go to but
we're also going to ask some very
interesting questions like why is the
earth as warm as it is and why does it
get colder when we go deeper the ocean
and perhaps we'll ask why does it get
colder when we go up in the atmosphere
we know that hot air rises so why is it
cold when we go up and we're going to
try to connect these things together so
we understand the circulation of the
oceans the circulation the atmosphere
and how it relates to this overall theme
of our
energetic planet